welcome back to movies explained today
we're looking at the 2007 horror film
called 30 days of night barrow alaska is
a small town located on the northernmost
side of the us they have a tradition of
cutting off from the rest of the world
for 30 days of night a man gets out of
the ship and moves towards the town in
the winter snow it's the last day of the
sun eben the sheriff of the small city
of alaska is with his friend billy when
they find a burnt pile of satellite
phones billy thinks of it as a prank but
even finds it strange they move in the
snow and look at the last sunset when
billy says the last sunset always works
they drive the car and stop to change
the number of residents to 152 on the
entry board to the town stella is
working when one of her co-workers
advises her to rethink her separation
from eden people who can't handle no sun
for 30 days are leaving the town while
their loved ones pay them one last
goodbye before going some of the dogs in
the town are killed by some unknown
person
even checks on bow and warns to sight
him on the leaking oil on the street
when he comes back to the car billy asks
him why he always says that to beau to
which even replies a little citation
helps remind him that he's still part of
the town even's grandma tells him on the
radio that something terrible happened
to john rice dogs so they leave to check
out the situation stella is driving to
the airport when her car gets into a bit
of an accident with malachi's truck he
apologizes to her while she worries
about missing her flight stella calls
even and tells him that she is in town
for some work and now she has to get
back on the plane but can't because of
the minor accident she just had she
asked stephen to help her get to the
airport even is amazed to know she
didn't tell him that she was in town he
calls billy and asks him to get stella
to the airport while he goes to john
rye's house even looks at the slaughter
dogs and tries to get some information
from the owners he promises them to find
the one responsible and leaves for the
station his younger brother jake asks
him to play the game with him but he
refuses while his grandmother helen
tells him about another complaint she
heard about vandalism stella reaches the
airport and finds out she has missed her
flight and is in the town for a month
billy offers her to stay with him and
his family he asks her to stay and tell
him about what's going on with her and
even even visits carter and wilson
regarding the complaint and finds him
angry at someone ripping out half of the
helicopter gus is working in his house
when he hears some noises and goes out
to see who's in the snowstorm he looks
around and finds some people surrounding
him he's bitten and drained by a group
of vampires
the same strange man from the shore
appears to enter the diner he asks lucy
to give him some beer vodka but she
tells him that no alcohol is available
during the 30 days the man then demands
a raw hamburger but she tells him that
they only serve cooked or frozen the man
becomes angry and grabs lucy's hand even
enters the diner and asks the man to let
her go stella comes in and points a gun
at the man when he tries to attack her
even manages to control him and cuffs
him while he talks to stella about her
stay in the town stella chooses to
accompany even on his way to the
sheriff's station to meet jake and helen
they get to the station and even locks
the man up while stella meets jake and
helen three workers are heading back
from work discussing whose house they'll
be staying at when one of them named
gabe is dragged and dropped wounded in
front of the other two
denise manages to escape while the
vampires attack her other partner even
tries to interrogate the man and find
out who he is the man stays quiet so
even says we have a long time to figure
it out as no one is coming here for a
month helen checks the station computers
and finds that they're down while even
takes the phone which also isn't working
the prisoner says all of you are so
helpless for what is about to come try
to hide because they're going to come
and take me for all i have done stella
tries to calm jake while even asks the
man about the people he's talking about
when all the lights shut off in the town
[Music]
even heads to the cell tower and asks
jake and helen to stay with him on the
radio he goes looking for gus when he
finds blood all over the snow even looks
around and finds gus's head hung on a
spike he heads back while telling people
to stay in their homes and lock their
doors people try to ask even about the
situation but he says he doesn't know
anything yet a vampire breaks into
john's house and drags his wife ally out
jon tries to save her but gets bit by a
vampire and wounded the man in the
prison talks about the approaching death
with no way out even comes back and
yells at the man asking him about the
people who killed gus the man says you
all are dead people and i don't talk to
dead people even and stella head out to
look for the people who kill gus with
helen and jake on the radio even ask
stella to stop the truck when they go
out to see what's happening stella
screams and asks even to get in a
vampire attacks the car even tries to
shoot him multiple times but the vampire
is not injured stella somehow manages to
get it off the car while she drives back
as fast as she can even and stella are
talking about the strange encounter with
a vampire when they hear helen crying on
the radio they head back to the station
and find blood all around the prisoner
is still there saying they didn't take
me finish me off even tries to ask about
jake from the prisoner but he doesn't
have any answers the leader of the
vampires marlow instructs his fellows
not to turn anyone but to separate their
heads they all discuss the creatures
that are not affected by the bullets and
they keep coming even if you keep
shooting them the vampires start
attacking the residents marlowe says
there is no escape no hope only hunger
and pain they kill the people and bring
them of their blood while they scream
the whole town is under attack people
try to run but are caught they try to
shoot the vampires but are killed there
is total chaos and bloodshed the diner
is locked with a few people inside jake
returns to eben safely and he's pleased
to see his baby brother alive the people
question him about the creatures and
even tells them they'll figure this out
once they get to a safe place they aim
for kelson sadiq even asks everyone to
go there while he goes out to create a
distraction with weapons and traps
stella joins him they're headed in their
truck when it gets stuck in the snow
stella tries to get it out but the
vampires attack them luckily bo comes
and saves them taking them away from the
attack all of them head to kelson's
attic and get to it with everyone else
waiting for them they hear screaming in
gunshots outside jake says he saw the
creatures kill grandma and makes a guess
that they are vampires the rest of them
don't agree with him because they think
vampires are just tales and stories even
tells everyone that they don't know
anything about the creatures but they'll
figure it out until then they have to
ration food and sleep in shifts even
gives everyone hope that they have been
living in the town for years and this is
for a reason the vampires visit the man
in the prison the prisoner tells them he
did precisely what they asked him to do
marlo says we will take care of you and
kills the prisoner everyone is scared
and they try to take some rest isaac and
wilson emphasize running before they are
caught and killed by the vampires but
even says they can't go anywhere at the
moment he tells them that he will leave
for the store to get some supplies and
then head to the utility where they can
easily last for a month it's day 7 of
the month and a woman is screaming on
the street asking for help the people in
the attic hear her and even looks out
through the opening carter says we need
to get her in before they get to her
even asks carter to look at the roofs of
the houses and says they're using the
woman as bait the woman says to one of
the vampires i tried there's no one
there even goes outside and sees the
woman being attacked by the group of
vampires until she dies even spots jon
under a wreck and talks to him jon tells
iben that his leg hurts and the vampires
took his wife even tries to calm him
down by telling him about the safe place
when even sees john he realizes he has
turned into one of those creatures and
points a gun at him jon tries to attack
eben but even kills him with an axe and
gets back to the attic even tells
everyone if jon turning into the
creature isaac tries to get outside but
stella and wilson stop him and ask him
not to make a noise isaac heads to the
bathroom but soon they realize that he
has escaped through the window stella
tries to stop wilson from following him
but he pushes stella and goes outside
even and stella stands still when they
see a vampire coming into the house the
vampire is distracted by wilson's voice
calling for his father so he goes out
stella feels guilty about letting wilson
go but even tells her that you cannot
stop anyone when their family is at
stake the heavy snowfall surrounds the
town the group of survivors head towards
the store they're each there they find
it almost empty even assigns different
people to get the things they need and
meet back in two minutes to escape from
there everyone's trying to get the stuff
sorted when they find a young vampire
feeding on a woman the kid attacks the
people but is killed by jake with an axe
they're stuck in the store for some days
after 18 days of the month they decide
to go out stella tells them that these
things can't survive the sun so they can
try and bring the sun earlier even
agrees to create a distraction when he
heads to his grandmother's home that has
a uv lamp the vampires follow the noise
he makes and reach the place even turns
the generator on and manages to burn one
of the vampires but then the power is
cut even succeeds to get out while marlo
kills the vampire due to the pain she is
suffering beau comes and creates a
diversion he kills a lot of vampires
with his truck but in the end dies by
the hand of one vampire the survivors
are at the station when lucy says
there's only six of us left carter
reveals that the girl at the store
turned him and he doesn't want to live
forever without his family even takes
him to a room and kills him with an axe
on day 27 of the month even spots a
light in one of the houses and realizes
it's billy even in stella head to the
house and find billy sitting there alone
they see the dead bodies of his family
and realize that billy killed them even
takes billy with him to the station they
find everyone gone and think that
they've headed to the utiliter they
carry billy through the snow stella spot
scale and goes out to help the kid a
vampire comes from behind so even asks
stella to leave with a kid the vampire
signals the others even and billy both
reach the utilities separately and even
finds other people there billy is
followed by a vampire and starts a fight
with him he manages to throw the vampire
in the crushers but is bitten and starts
to turn
even has no choice but to kill him
denise comes to jake with some food and
wine and asks them to celebrate their
survival stella comes in on the radio
and informs even that she's hiding under
a wreck with gail she also tells them
that she's freezing but even promises
her that she will be okay and that they
will see the sunrise tomorrow the
vampires burn the entire town to leave
no sign of their existence when even
decides to save stella and gail he takes
some blood from billy's infected body
and injects it into himself he asks jake
to take care of stella and says to stop
the creatures you have to become like
them even goes out and starts fighting
the vampires stella watches him from a
distance even can finally defeat marlowe
and he kills him when the rest of the
vampires leave stella comes close to
even and says what have you done to
yourself to which he replies what i had
to do he asked stella whether he should
go after the vampires or not because it
was almost done stella and even sit
together and watch the sun coming out
even kisses stella for the last time and
they hug each other the sun comes out
and the story ends with even burning in
the sunlight and turning into ash and
stella's arms
let us know what you thought of this
recap and don't forget to subscribe
check out some of our other movies on
the channel
[Music]
you